Eryndor's father, Jarek, was a human rogue who had fallen in love with an Elven woman named Eirieneth. Over the course of many moons, Jarek convinced Eirieneth to run away together. Despite the disapproval of Eirieneth's family, a few months later, they settled down in a forest approximately 300 miles south of Silverdeep, within the Silver Mountains about 50 miles south of Orespire, in a region they came to call the Whispering Woods. When Eryndor was 5 years old, he and his father awoke to find that Eirieneth had vanished without a trace. Eryndor and Jarek were devastated from the loss. They searched the forest for any signs of Eirieneth but found no clues. Determined to get answers, they set off in search of Eirieneth, leaving behind their home and the Whispering Woods. Over the next few years, as they traveled and searched, they discovered that it was not only Eirieneth who had vanished but all the Elves. During their travels, Jarek passed on some of his skills as a rogue to Eryndor, shaping their abilities as a thief and contributing to the development of their Arcane Trickster skills later in life. Many nights, Eryndor would hear tales from Jarek about how he met Eirieneth and convinced her to run away with him. Some 15 years into their journey, while Jarek was attempting a heist to fund their continued serach, he was captured by the Empires Law Enforcement (The Hands of the Empire). Despite the loss of his father, while Eryndor continued to pursue his skills as a rogue he never developed a reputation as he never stopped in any town more than a few nights. He also used his skills to gather information about the missing Elves, hoping to someday uncover the truth about what had happened to them and Eirieneth. As the years passed, Eryndor has had time to grieve his mother and father. Over time the search for answers about the missing Elves and Eirieneth's whereabouts has since faded from being Eryndor's primary focus.